I've been in business for 14 years. I
have a portfolio of companies that last
year did over $250 million in aggregate
revenue. And if I had to start over from
scratch today, this is the most
important concept uh to learn, right?
And so I want to be clear, this is not a
tactic. It's not a funnel. It's actually
a ratio. And once you understand it,
you'll never really see business the
same way again. And the way I like to
think about this is that there's a lot
of people out, you know, in the
marketplace who talk about different
methods. But what this is is about a
better model. And the thing is is that
methods expire. Methods are like
onetrick ponies. you figure out a new DM
hack, you figure out a new way to, you
know, get your content to go viral with
a new hashtag, whatever, right? Those
are methods. Those are tiny tactics, but
those change all the time. The things
that endure are the models. It's the
economics of the business itself, right?
And so that is the engine that fuels
everything. And so, everyone likes to
talk about marketing, content, branding,
etc., but none of it matters if you run
out of money. And so, let's think about
the number one rule of business is don't
go out of business. And so what's the
thing that prevents you from going out
of business? Cash flow. And so if you
can manage your cash flow, then you can
basically stay in business forever. You
can continue to play the game. In
Silicon Valley, they're able to do this
by artificially inflating the cash they
have in the business by raising money
from the outside. Now, the vast majority
of businesses, 99% of business owners,
don't have outside investors beyond
themselves. Most businesses are
bootstrapped. And so, if your cash is
the only thing the business relies on,
you better well make sure that you build
a business that makes cash flow. so that
you can stay in business. And so what
I'm going to walk you through is
basically the concept that unlocked my
business career. So to illustrate the
concept, I'm going to kind of tell you
the tale of two businesses. And this
tale is actually what I built, you know,
my my wealth off of this idea. So like I
mean it made me a deculta millionaire.
So maybe worth paying attention to. So
when I entered the gym industry, they
were running things what they called
LBOS's, which is funny because in the in
the M&A world, LBO is a leverage buyout.
But in the gym owner world, it was a low
barrier offer, right? That's what it
that's what it meant. Sometimes now
people call it a low ticket offer, but
they would go they would run these $21
21-day programs, right? And this was
like kind of like industry standard.
That's what everyone ran. So you get 21
bucks for 21 days and then afterwards
you try and convert them from $21 into a
$99 per month membership, right? And
this would take 21 days. Okay. What we
came in to start doing is we ran uh
six-w week challenges. And with our six
week challenges, we would get $600
upfront
day one. And then we would sell another
$200 of supplements within the next 48
hours. And then at week three, we would
get them to prepay for the year. And so
we would get another $2,000. Now, of
course, not every single person took
every one of these upsells, but blended,
we'd be looking somewhere in the
neighborhood at a thousandish dollars
within basically the first 30 days. Now,
look at the difference in economics
between $21 in the first 30 days and
$1,000. So, if these two people or these
two businesses are competing in the same
marketplace, which is an auction of
attention quite literally when you're
running ads, who do you think can
outspend whom? This guy by a mile. And
so when we entered the space, our gyms
that ran our model, not method, our
model, didn't matter what advertising
platform we were advertising on, could
outspend the competition handily. So
fundamentally, the business that can
make more money from its customer than
its competitors wins. And so because you
make more money than your competitors
off your customers, then it means you
can spend more to acquire them. And if
you can spend more, then it means you
have a veritable monopoly over the
attention. Because think about every one
of these eyeballs has a little auction
that's going on in real time every day.
If I can outspend everybody in my market
and I can actually have the ability to
deliver on all of these customers, guess
what I can do? I can buy up 100% of the
advertising space and have a legal
monopoly over that market because I can
just outspend everybody. Now, it's not
like I have some network effect on
pricing people out. It has nothing to do
with that. If anything, I make more
money from customers so I can charge I
can pay more to get them. I'm not
undercutting them and doing competitive
practices. It's the opposite. I'm
competing by having a better model. And
so these guys would lose money because
for them it would still cost them about
$100 to get a customer. So you're like,
wait a second, why would they pay $100
to make 21? This actually happens all
the time in business. And then they'd
get one out of three of these people to
buy the $99 thing. And so it's really
closer to $300 for them to get a $99
membership, which on average would stay
six months. not a very good business,
but this is what the industry standard
was. But for us, we're making a thousand
plus and for us, if we had $300 and it
cost us less because our offer was
actually better, we were able to acquire
and then continue to profit this whole
period of time. So, if you have these
two businesses, if you're in business
one, do you have a marketing budget? Of
course you do, because you have to limit
how much you're burning to get customers
because you're losing money getting
them. So, you have to say, "Okay, we're
willing to spend, you know, $4,000 and
we're going to get 40 people to buy our
$21 thing. That's what we're willing to
spend." And we're going to wait until we
get these people to add into our
recurring revenue and then we might be
able to spend $5,000 the next month.
But, we have to budget it. Now, in
scenario two here, what is our marketing
budget for this business? Well, if it
cost you a hundred bucks to make a
thousand, what's your budget? You spend
as many dollars as you possibly can and
keep those numbers. That's how you do
it. And so this is what allowed me to
bankroll the opening of each of my gym
facilities when I had them beyond the
first one and to open all of them at
full capacity on the first day, which is
not common. And so basically, this is
what it would look like.
I would put $5,000 into a bank account
and I would sign a lease. And then I
would start running ads for $100 a day.
From those $100 a day of ads, I would
get 10 leads. From those 10 leads, I
knew that I was going to close two of
those leads.
From those two leads, I knew that I was
going to get, let's call it, $600 each.
So, I was getting 1,200 bucks
immediately from the $100 that I spent
earlier that day. Now, what's going to
happen to my bank account? Well, I was
at 4,900, but now I have $1,200 more. So
now my 4,900 becomes 6,100,
and I repeat the cycle again tomorrow.
Now, if I did this every day, then I
would make an extra call it $30,000 in
profit month one. But I was a sneaky
sneaky guy. And so instead of spending
$100, I would spend $500 every day. And
then with that money, there was some
inefficiencies that happened. Sometimes
lead costs went up, etc. But I would
usually be able to generate upwards of
$100,000
in sales within that period of time from
one gym. And so with that $100,000,
guess what it cost to open a gym? A
little bit less than $100,000. And so I
was able to finance the opening of each
of my gyms by putting $5,000 into the
bank account, running through this black
box, and then getting $100,000 on the
other side in that first month. And so
that then allowed me to buy the
equipment. It did the flooring. I bought
the sign. I did the painting. I put the
lobby in place. I got my weights. I got
everything I needed, the sound system,
right? Merch, all that stuff set up so
that at the end of the 30 days of the
pre-sale, I could then kick the gym off
completely outfitted, completely paid
for by the customers that now started.
And then 6 weeks after that, we would
roll those customers into a recurring
membership. And then at that point, 6
weeks later, the business was cash flow
positive. And this is how when I was in
my very early 20s, I was able to open up
six locations off of the cash flow that
the business was able to generate and in
such a short period of time. And so the
thing is is that every single business
can build a box like this with skill. So
coming back to the number one most
important business concept, this is what
you need to know. Number one is what
what's a customer worth
to you?
over
30 days. Now, the reason I limit it to
30 days is because that's typically as
long as most small businesses can handle
from a cash flow perspective, as in like
you're willing to pay money, wait 30
days to get it back. That's also because
that's the the interestfree time period
where people will give you money for no
interest. Credit cards are interest free
for the first 30 days. And so, you
basically are limited by your ability to
get credit if you actually had no money.
But if you do have some money, then
still you want to recover it back within
the first 30 days. That's a rule of
thumb. Now, the second thing is, okay,
we know what a customer is worth to us.
We know what gross profit, how much
we're going to make from them after we
pay the cost of delivering whatever it
is that we sell. The next is
what's a customer cost me? Now, what I'm
going be clear here is I'm not talking
about cost me to deliver. I'm saying
what does it cost me to get them? So,
what do I have to spend in marketing, in
advertising, in content, in sales
commissions to get a customer in the
door? And you have to know these two
numbers, number one and number two. And
ideally, number one is greater than
number two, right? Like, we want to make
sure we're making more money from
customers than it costs us to make it.
And the thing is is if you don't
understand your business math, you'll
continue to blame other things, right?
You'll continue to blame your methods.
Oh, Facebook doesn't work for me. Oh,
outbound doesn't work for me. content
doesn't work for me. Well, imagine
you're in this scenario, right? Is it
actually an issue with Facebook ads? Is
is it the ads that aren't working? Is it
the method that's not working? Or is it
the model? You have a model issue. If
you could make hypothetically a billion
dollars from a customer, you could spend
12 cents to reach every single person on
Earth and just try to get one customer.
That would be a business that could
probably spend a lot of money. Real
quick, I have a gift for you. This is
the $und00 million scaling roadmap. It's
something that my team and I put 200
plus hours into building and breaking
the stages of scaling into 10 steps. All
right. And so what we did is we broke
down everything that got us basically
got us stuck and what we did to break
free at each level of the business. And
if you'd like to know what product,
marketing, sales, customer service, IT,
recruiting, human uh resources, and
finance look like at the stage that
you're currently at. This is a free
gift. So all you have to do is go to
aquis.com/roadmap. You can plug in your
business information. And if you want
our help, you want my help to help you
break through whatever level of scaling
you're at, this is not a promise. I'm
just saying I'd love to help. Um, on the
thank you page, you can book a call. Uh,
every month we have a workshop out here
at my headquarters. You actually talk to
my real team that does does our
marketing, does our emails, does our
ads, does our copy, does our does our
does our sales, does our finance, does
our recruiting. The real people are
doing this at a very high level. And
what's really cool about that is that
they can typically find and spot what
the constraints are in a business like
that. And so it's one of the most
valuable things that I could possibly
do. Obviously, you know, space is
limited based on our actual
headquarters. Um, but if that's
interesting, on the thank you page, you
can book a call. No pressure. This is a
gift either way. It's absolutely free.
Now, I've been I've been I've been
hiding the the the real words for this,
but thankfully, business actually has a
term for this, which is the lifetime
gross
profit,
which is LTGP. Sometimes people refer to
this as LTV or CLV, customer lifetime
value, lifetime value. All of these more
or less mean the same thing. What's the
amount of money you make after you spend
whatever you got to spend in delivering
for the customer? What's the extra cash
on top? If you they pay you 100 bucks,
it cost you 20 to deliver a sandwich. 80
bucks is your gross profit. If they do
that 10 times, $800 is the lifetime
gross profit. All right. Now, what's a
customer cost me? This is CAC. This is
cost of acquiring customer. That's what
that stands for. All right. So, this is
our ratio of LTV to CAC. Here we go.
Now, if you can do this math for
yourself, and I'll give you the back and
napkin way of looking at this because
you're probably like, I don't track this
stuff. And that's okay. Look at what you
spent in marketing for all of last year.
Okay? So, do a whole year. Very simple.
You can just look at the line item, what
you spend in advertising, what you spend
in labor that's associated with it. So,
you might have a videographer or a
contractor. You might have spent some
money on ads. You might have spent some
money in commissions. Everything that it
takes to cost to get a customer. Okay?
all of those cost. You add them together
and then you look at how many new
customers did I get last year. Maybe you
got a 100 customers and let's say it
cost you $100,000. Okay, so that means
it cost you $1,000 per customer. Okay,
this should make sense. That gives you
how much your CAC is. And the nice thing
is that CAC's the easiest one to
calculate. You just literally look at
your cost divided by customers. That's
it. I'll give you the back of napkin
simplest way to do it which is revenue
divided by number of total customers.
Now I want to be clear. This is going to
give us our lifetime revenue. We still
have to look at our gross profit here.
So we would just multiply that number by
gross profits. And if you're not sure
what your gross profits are, if it cost
you 20 bucks to make a sandwich and you
charge a h 100 bucks, then your gross
profit is 80, meaning 80%. All right? So
you'd multiply that number by 80% and
that's what your lifetime gross profit's
going to be. So I'll also give you the
simplest way to do gross profit. So I'm
giving you the back and napkin quick and
dirty ways, but you know what's
interesting that I found is that the
back of napkin way when you do it over
an extended period of time tends to be
the most accurate because it takes you
don't have these good months and bad
months. It actually gives you a more
accurate picture of your business. All
right. So, the way you do it is you look
at uh total costs
of goods,
which some people call COGS. All right?
Or cost of delivery if you have a
service. So, it's like if you have a
bunch of reps and you have some software
that you use to deliver or you've got
some contractors that you deliver some
stuff, whatever it costs you to deliver
for all customers for the whole year
divided by number of customers.
That's it. So that'll give you what your
cost per customer is.
And so if we then take our lifetime
revenue
and subtract our cost per customer, then
we'll get our lifetime value. All right,
which is the gross profit per customer.
And that's like a very real way of doing
that. So we have, you know, two
variables, simple divisions with some
simple subtraction. All right, so this
is not intimidating math. And if this
intimidates you, I would encourage you
to get over it because this is this is
this is not even this is third grade
math. I don't know when they teach
multiplication, division, but I think
it's around third grade. All right? It's
not a lot, okay? Like you can do this.
Like literally, all you have to do is
just add up just add up the line item at
the end of your bookkeeping because your
bookkeeper probably does this. Just look
at your advertising total, look at your
sales commission total, look at your
your payroll total for everything else
that's not marketing and salesreated.
And then you add all that stuff up
together and you look at how many
customers you have in total that are
active and then you divide it. And so
the end result here is that you're going
to have an LTV number or lifetime gross
profit number whatever it is and you're
going to have a CAC number on average
for the last year. Now ideally you want
the ratio between these numbers to be as
big as possible. Now
I'm going to give you three kind of
considerations for this. Many of the
people in the software world, the very
smart Silicon Valley people talk about a
rule of th one, which is you want to
make sure that you're making at least $3
in gross profit per customer for every
dollar it cost to get them. Okay. Now,
having done business for a while now,
that is only true under the conditions
where you have all three elements of
business that are automated. And you're
like, what are the what are the
components of business? Basically, lead
generation has to be automated.
Conversion has to be automated. So
sales, how you going to get people to to
to give you money, right? And then you
have delivery or fulfillment.
These are the three components that have
to be automated. If all three are
automated, yes, 3:1 works. Now, if two
of the three are automated, right? So
let's say this one isn't automated, this
one is, and this one is, then I think
you change that to about six to one.
Now, if two of them are not automated
and only one of them is, I think you
change that to nine to one. That's at
minimum. And then finally, if all three
are not automated, meaning you have
people at every one of these steps in
the process, you need to be at over 12
to one. Now, you might be like, wow,
that's a lot different than what I have,
right? And that's why we need to improve
it, which is what I'm going to talk
about next. Now, you might hear this and
then wonder like, wait, what degree is
does this like the checks and the X's?
What does that even mean? Okay, so lead
genen, something that's high leverage
would be like making content. That's one
to many. Running ads, one to many. Those
are things that would qualify to me as
being high leverage. It's not one
person. You don't have manual labor
that's really installed there in order.
You're not limited by human. Now, if
you're doing manual outreach in order to
get customers, you would be limited
there, right? If you have viral
coefficient, it's all word of mouth and
it's compounding. That has high
leverage, right? So, if you were doing
outreach as your primary way of getting
customers, well, there's nothing wrong
with doing that to be clear. But if you
do a manual process, then you're going
to have an X here. So, it's going to
mean you're gonna have to increase your
LTV to CAC ratio. Now, if you're like,
why do I have to do this? The reason
that this ratio has to increase is
because there's a number of costs that
the business incurs as you scale. So,
number one is the cost of getting new
customers is actually going to go up as
you go to colder and colder markets.
Cost of getting customer, believe it or
not, always goes up over time. So you
might whatever you have today, believe
it or not, is likely going to be the
best cost per car customer you're ever
going to get. All right? Because CPMs go
up over time. This is a fact of life.
More competitors enter the marketplace,
this is a fact of life. And even if
neither of those things are true, and
you just went into colder and colder
markets, as in you scaled up your
advertising, you're going to reach
people that the algorithm thinks are
slightly less likely than the first
people that they displayed your ads to,
which means it's going to cost more
because it's going to have to show it to
more eyeballs to get the same number of
conversions. So it's going to cost you
more per customer. you're going up the
interest graph, right? You're going up
kind of the normal curve of people are
less and less interested as you go
colder and colder and spend more and
more. That's number one. The second
reason that this is important is that
you're going to put in layers of
infrastructure in your business. You're
going to have levels of management. And
these things, although they suck, still
add cost to business as it scales. And
so, you're going to need some padding in
terms of your lifetime gross profit to
be able to afford this level of scaling.
And typically, customers that come in
later are less sold on the idea and
sometimes are worth less. So they
actually end up spending less money over
time. And so all of these reasons kind
of compound together. And the last one
which is so important when it comes to
this X mark is that when you have people
in every one of these processes,
whenever you hit a point of kind of
saturation, you've hit the capacity of
let's say your sales team. Let's say
you've got five guys that are
proficient, they do well. Well, at some
point you're going to have to scale your
sales. And so you're going to bring a
sixth person in or seventh person in.
But that new sales guy is not going to
be as good as the first five. It's going
to take time for them to get good, for
them to get on. Same thing when it comes
to marketing. You're going to have to
have a new marketer who's going to come.
He's not going to be as good at making
content. He's going to have to get reps.
Same thing on delivery. You might have
some star account reps on the back end
that do some level of of service
delivery and you have to bring somebody
else up to speed. But the thing is is
the business has to incur that cost
immediately day one and doesn't always
get the return on that for a few months.
And so if you're at 3:1 and then you
have these all of a sudden, imagine
this, you're at 3:1, but then you have
to bring in a new marketer, you have to
bring in new sales people, and you have
to bring in new account reps. Well, all
of your metrics are going to suffer,
which means all of a sudden you're going
to go from barely being profitable to
probably not being profitable at all.
And so, we have to have this these
increases for each level of manual that
enters the business in terms of manual
labor so that we have padding and
cushion for cash flow in order to scale
because the number one rule of business
is you have to you can stay in business
as long as you got money. That's the
rule. And so, we have to make sure our
economics of the business support the
fact that we're going to have
inefficiencies as we scale and it's
going to be lumpy, right? right? We have
to bring in a whole bunch of new sales
guys. Our conversion rates are going to
tank. But we have to have the business
economics, the model to support that.
Because if the only way your business
works is that you're selling, you're
never going to scale. You have to fix
the model. I could make 20 books and
movies on on on what you do to increase
this ratio. How do you improve it? All
right. So, off the off the top of my
head, all right, some things that you
can do to immediately make more money.
Number one is you can raise the price.
Number two is that you can decrease
costs. Number three is that you can have
upsells. Number four is that you can add
downells, which means that a higher
percentage of customers who otherwise
wouldn't have bought now do. So you
actually make more money per because you
actually sell more people. If you start
selling uh expensive people who would
have bought an expensive thing, a cheap
thing, you make less money. So you got
to be very careful with downells. Um you
can add in financing. All right, this is
something that pulls cash forward.
Again, this is from a cash flow
perspective. You can change the terms of
how you collect payment. You can say,
you know what, you can have a payment
plan and you can pay as long as you
want, but we don't start working until
you pay off everything, right? There are
different ways that we can structure
these things that we can frontload the
cash in the business. You can also have
cross- sales, which means that you sell
them something different. Rather than
higher quality or more of something, you
actually sell something different. You
sell a burger with fries rather than a
bigger burger or a better burger. Right?
And as I'm going through these things,
you should absolutely know how to be
able to apply this to any business. All
right? So if I have let's say we'll take
let's take take this book. All right. So
if I wanted to run through this I could
raise the price of my book. I could buy
in larger economies of scale to decrease
the cost of the book or I could figure
out what I could do from a shipping
perspective to negotiate better rates on
my shipping. Um I could have maybe AI
support so that I don't have to have as
many people to manage kind of shipping
issues. I could upsell a nicer version
of this book. So instead of being a
digital book, I could upsell a hard
version of this book. or I could give
you audio and a hard copy and ebook
version of this book. If I wanted to
cross-ell, I would sell a second book
that was different than the original
book. If I needed financing, which for
the you hope that people don't need
financing for a book, but I could
introduce financing so that people could
pay for this book up front. And so all
of these different and if I have a the
downell here is the reverse of the
upsell. If people can't afford my
hardback, then I say, why don't you have
one of my digital copies which is
cheaper. All right? And so every
business you should be able to on the
top of your head think of ways to apply
this. I'm going to do this again because
I think it's worth doing. All right.
What is this? This is a table. All
right. So I can increase the price of my
table. I can decrease the cost of of
manufacturing this table. I can upsell a
higher quality table. So I can say,
"Hey, let's make this marble, right? Or
I can downell a wood or plastic version.
I can cross-ell chairs or table covers
that go with this thing. I can add a
warranty on top of this that I can
upsell or cross-ell, excuse me. um I can
add financing or I can change the terms
of collection. All of these things are
things that can drive up the lifetime
value. And if you can't go through that
exercise with your business, you don't
understand your business well enough.
You could absolutely do this with any
business. It's actually harder with
physical products than it is with
services. Now, of course, what every
business owner wants is they want
cheaper customers because no one ever
wants to admit that their business isn't
that good. And the reality is most
business owners want more leads and it's
usually the last thing they really need.
they really need a better model so they
can afford more expensive leads and that
gives you a competitive advantage. You
wanting cheaper leads means that you're
competing on methods and that means that
somebody else can copy your methods and
if they have a better model, they'll
still outspend you. And so the model is
the competitive mode. A method is a one
trick, right? And that will expire. So
you want to always double down on the
model and obviously you want to know
what's up to date right now. Hey, if you
can get customers for cheaper, let's do
it. But the long-term thing is you want
to make sure you have a better model.
Now, how do you decrease the cost of
getting customers? All right, so you can
improve your offer, right? How do we how
do we make the thing that we have more
compelling? We can improve our ad
creatives. So, this is uh better ads.
So, think about this in terms of volume
and quality. How do I put out more ads?
How do I have better hooks? How do I
remake my winners? We can also increase
CRO, so conversion rate optimization in
terms of uh our pages. So, are we split
testing our pages, split testing our
follow-up? Are we split testing uh the
scripting that we're using on the phone?
Are we training our team if we use phone
sales? All of these things uh decrease
your CAC. On top of this, we can go to
um I'll just say cheaper CPMs, which is
you're going to advertise in places that
cost you less per eyeball. Now, again,
lowering CAC is not necessarily the
answer. You can lower CAC, but that
assumes that you're and again, CAC, can
not cost per lead because you can get
very cheap leads very easily, but you
not might not get good leads. You might
not get customers if you do that. And so
we really just want to maximize for our
return between these two numbers. So
I'll give you a hypothetical example.
Let's say uh in scenario one, actually
I'm going to give a fresh page here. So
let's say scenario one, LTV is $5,000
and CAC is
$500. And let's say scenario two, LTV is
$1,000
and CAC is $200.
Which business would you rather have?
Well, if you just said, "Hey, I want
cheaper customers." Then you'd say this,
"But does that make sense?" No, because
you're getting five to one. Wouldn't you
rather put $500 in and get $5,000 back
because now you're getting 10 to one.
And so obviously this business number
one is the better business to own even
though it costs you more than twice as
much to get a customer. And so we want
to optimize for our returns not for one
specific number of I want the cheapest
leads or I want the cheapest customers.
You want the customers that are worth
the most relative to what you pay. This
concept if you actually can internalize
this and actually choose to make
decisions about your business like this
because I'm telling you right now most
business owners optimize for this. They
say, "Oh, we're getting this is getting
us cheaper customers. Let's advertise
broader. Let's make sure that we open up
the top of the funnel." Well, guess
what? You're going to get way more and
you're going to get way more trash. And
then all of a sudden, you're like, "Man,
all these customers suck." Well, it's
because you're not you're not willing to
spend more to get a better quality
customer. The thing is is the higher the
customer is typically the more expanded
this LTV to CAC ratio gets. So, wouldn't
you be willing to spend a million
dollars to get a customer that pays you
20 million? Yes. And sometimes that's
what it is. It costs a ton of money, but
then you make so much more. But you've
got to be willing to pay to play. So,
this is how real business works.
Everything in business changes once you
understand this. All you have to do to
stay in business is you have to have
cash. And in order to have cash, you
need to increase what you make versus
what you spend to make it. And managing
that ratio and the payback period of
when you get that money back is going to
be the lever on how quickly you can grow
and reinvest the money back into your
money-making machine. So, if you can
spend more to get customers than your
competitors can, you win. And this is
what I wish someone had told me or got
me to explain year one. And so hopefully
now you know.